# Birgit Tegethoff & Werner Business Finland

**Date:** 2025-11-05

---

0:09 - Shane Kelly
Hi, Birgit.
0:10 - Werner Merzeder
Hi, Werner. Hello. Good morning.
0:14 - Shane Kelly
Good morning. Werner, you're in Melbourne. Sorry, you're in Australia still?
0:23 - Werner Merzeder
I'm in Sydney, yes.
0:26 - Shane Kelly
Excellent. Excellent. Is it Birgit? Birgit, can you hear me?
0:35 - Werner Merzeder
No, I can't. Sorry.
0:37 - Unidentified Speaker
Is that the correct pronunciation?
0:39 - Birgit Tegethoff
Close enough. We'll go with that. How are you?
0:44 - Shane Kelly
I'm very well, very well. Are you in Finland?
0:48 - Birgit Tegethoff
No, I'm in Sydney. I'm based here in Sydney.
0:50 - Shane Kelly
Oh, you're based in Sydney. Excellent.
0:52 - Birgit Tegethoff
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's easy, easy, you know. I've been joined Business Finland three and a half, well, close to four years ago now, but I've been living in Australia since 2009, I'm a dual citizen. Not a Finn, I'm a German, so just to confuse everybody.
1:08 - Werner Merzeder
Yeah, to add to this one, I'm also Austrian, so completely confusion, perfect.
1:18 - Shane Kelly
Good stuff, good stuff. Well, hopefully, Werner, you've had a good trip.
1:24 - Werner Merzeder
Yeah, everything's fine, and we were also with Birgit, we had been at IMAG and of course listened very carefully what's going on there and had a look there and of course had also good discussions and thank you that you reached out and for this opportunity to discuss with you concerning this Research Centre.
1:45 - Shane Kelly
Yeah yeah yeah well look I mean I'm not sure what Paul's told you but I'll give you the I'll give you the back story so the Critical Minerals Queensland and the Mount and City Council have essentially got together and have been working on the concept for establishing a new Research Centre. Initially, it was going to be focused on rare earths and then expanded to critical minerals. The Sustainable Minerals Institute, which is part of the University of Queensland, did a scoping study about 12 months ago. And I think the final report for that was completed in sort of April, May, but most of the work was done last year. We were brought in by, we were brought in to take a deeper dive into the, you know, what the demand for the Centre would be. And then essentially they accepted the recommendations of the scoping work, which was to go to a detailed feasibility and we've been brought in to run the feasibility. So we're just in the early phases of that work, which is really refining the concepts and then a much deeper stakeholder piece just to ascertain what's the likely level of demand. And obviously when you've got when you're doing something like this, you know, a lot of the explorers, you know, they just focus on exploration, but as they advance, you know, the need to use the Research Centre will increase. But, you know, overall the aims are to build capability Research and advanced test work capability in the region. So, building that capability It's also a sovereign capability piece. I don't think I've ever really been involved with something that is so flavour of the month as critical minerals are at the moment, so we might have timed it quite well. At least we can say we started before it became flavour of the month. It is a nice change because, yeah, it should be, look, if the feasibility stacks up, then it'll be more likely than not to get funded, we expect. Yeah, yeah. So in terms of the actual Centre itself, we don't really, we wanted to have a commercial focus as well as a Research focus. So we don't want to just be you know, in the words of others, not me, another glorified lab. What we wanna have is a practical Centre that does, you know, practical applied Research on the local geology, helping those miners and explorers, you know, advance their projects at a quicker rate. But it will also have the capability to do work within copper zinc, lead, phosphates, et cetera, because if you don't do that, you're going to be just, you know, you'll be just targeting too small a market. So the idea is we're going to build a commercial scale lab that'll have the ability to do both things. You know, it'll be able to do assays testing and bulk sample testing, advanced metallurgical testing, piloting, and piloting across a range of minerals. That will include, for example, tailings reprocessing, which is one of the big opportunities up there. We're going to build in a bulk sampling and larger piloting program so that we support those companies that are looking to reprocess what is very, very large large amounts of tailings in the region. So, yeah. And in terms of where I'm at at the moment in feasibility, so we've been focusing on the stakeholder stuff at the moment, but we are in the phase of looking to appoint a technical expert, which might be a person or a company, more likely to be a company, but to undertake that sort of deep dive into the actual mechanisms of the Centre. So yeah, so that's where we're at. And if you've, yeah, interested to hear about Business Finland, obviously we've looked at some of the comparative labs and what we really want to do is just build another, is it GTK? Yep, we just, sort of like that sort of concept here in Australia, I think would work really well. Yeah, so that's why I was really keen to catch up with you guys.
7:11 - Birgit Tegethoff
That's a that's a good plan from our point of view. You know, that's I mean as you probably know there's been a lot of collaboration going on between GTK and the SMI to begin with, you know, they're they're working on multiple projects. There's a lot of exchange of personnel going on. So with a few Aussies. In Finland, and there's a few Finns up here. Some of the professors have spent some significant time in Finland. So there is, and even with the SMI subsidiary down in Chile, so there's even a trilateral collaboration going on. So fantastic to hear. Thank you for sharing also the timeline. So just a couple of questions. Maybe the, let's start from the back. Appointing export or company to help with the feasibility, that's a public tender I would assume, or how does that work? No?
8:08 - Shane Kelly
No, it's just going to be me selecting. No, no, I haven't, to be honest. There's a couple in the mix and I actually did have, I did reach out to the SMI guys to put me in contact with someone at GTK, which I haven't done yet because I needed to be I needed to be very set in what the concept was, because there's no point sort of engaging too quickly. But I'm at that stage now where I'm ready to. So, you know, if it was something that you thought, because really, so to tell you what we need out of the technical feasibility, it's the focus is on ensuring that we've got the right equipment for the services we want to deliver, and then helping us understand the cost of delivering those services. Services. Yeah. So that's, that's, that's the, that's essentially the extent of it at this stage. Yeah. Yeah.
9:06 - Birgit Tegethoff
Because I think that's, that's one of the things that really, really, I mean, they're so good in so many other areas, but, you know, I think this is, this is what impresses me over and over again with a, with a Finnish landscape, regardless of the, of the industry, but including the critical raw materials and, and rare earth They're very pragmatic, they're very, like you said, they have this commercial mindset, it's not just Research for the sake of Research. So everything they touch and do, you know, it's really very focused, very strategic, and they know exactly how to do that. So I think that would be really, really an interesting conversation, at least, you know, I'm not suggesting anything here. But I'm sure they would be, you know, happy to be a sparring partner and kind of share what they've done and how they've done it. I think that's definitely something you know if you know there's a bottleneck with SMI connecting you to the people that we can also help with no doubt about.
10:01 - Werner Merzeder
I see as well of course that what Piggy was always saying I think it's a very good benchmark on the one hand side also taking into account that beside of GDK we have also one big Research institute VTT, which is a government-owned Research institute, which is the biggest in northern Europe. And they are doing also quite a lot of really very good Research on also on critical minerals. And I think as well to have a look at both, so we're working both and what can be really taken into account for your center. I think that would be a good a good benchmark.
10:49 - Shane Kelly
Yeah, good stuff. I just had a quick look at my email. So it was Tuli, Kelly Asalo was the person that they were suggesting I touch base with. So I'm not sure whether that's someone who rings the bell, but yeah. So look, that would be, I think that would be excellent. Yeah. One of the reasons why SMI is not doing this, it wasn't selected to do the full feasibility was that they didn't want to muddy the waters in terms of if they're going to be selected to be potentially the lead proponent for the site. So hence that's why we're doing it and not them. It certainly wasn't a reflection on their capabilities. But yes, certainly we've been asked to look at this through a very commercial lens. Yeah, yeah. I don't think there's any doubt we'll be able to find the support for the funding required to build the Centre.
11:50 - Birgit Tegethoff
I have a feeling you're spot on. I mean, timing couldn't be better for something like this. Yeah, that's right. I mean, I've been working across the critical raw material value chains for the last, what, two years from the Finnish Australian perspective. We're coming from the battery value chains, actually, because in Finland, you know, similar geology, we have some of the minerals that we need for the metals for the batteries. There is a very, very, very sophisticated value chain there, from really exploration to processing to, you know, building components of the batteries. And then even the recycling is covered, obviously, then supplying into EV markets like Germany or France. So not necessarily necessarily, you know, they don't stay necessarily in Finland. So it's also chunking it up a little bit on an EU level, you know, because with everything that's going on in the world, you know, it's not just little beautiful Finland trying to maintain their position in the world, but we're also obviously helping to deliver against the EU Critical Raw Materials Act, which, you know, obviously wants certain capabilities and processing steps on the ground. But there's a clear appetite and push and lots of energy to partner with like-minded countries. And Australia definitely with the EU, Australia Critical Raw Materials MOU that was signed last year in May. Very, very, very, very clear commitment. Canada, you know, some of the other like-minded countries are come to mind and are involved as well. So there is a roadmap behind the MOU or because an MOU is just an MOU but there is a non-public roadmap where together with our colleagues from the embassy I put up my hand and said okay there's one, two, three work packages in that roadmap against the EU critical Australia role materials MOU where we want to play an active role despite the fact that we're a small country, but I think we're punching above our weight. And the Research development, including also what you said, the tailings mining or reprocessing, whatever you want to call it, is definitely one of those three buckets where we think that we can help facilitate that conversation, not just for Finland, but not just for the Nordics, even on the EU level. So that's definitely also very high on the agenda. At our embassy and as part of this work I've been engaging heavily with the Queensland government obviously with SMI there's a few projects where we already have even you know cooperation scopes agreed on for example in utilizing AI and mining exploration and other areas where we as as the innovation funding agency of Finland you know more than happy and ready to co-found it from our side Obviously it's taxpayer money, similar rules, you know, there has to be some Finnish content obviously that we can support, but I think we're very much aligned in the approach that we want commercial outcomes in the end. We love Research, we love innovation, and this is also what VTT does extremely well. I've not seen that in Germany to be honest. I love the Fraunhofer Institute, but what VTT really does as well as they operate in the Valley of Death. They're really, really, really heavily focusing on getting it to the commercial scale. And they only get a portion of their funding from us. They also have to, you know, obviously rake in their own money, and they're extremely good at that. So there's so much to learn and so much to tap into because they're very collaborative, right? You don't have to reinvent the wheel. And yes, we need to adapt it. But they've also been looking around gathering more information and building more connections here in Australia. So especially the lady that's in charge of the reprocessing. I had multiple meetings with her. I'm connecting her to different, you know, players in the market. Not all of them are in Queensland, let's be honest. But, you know, so they're gathering more and more information. And she was about to come to IMAG. Timing didn't work out. She had to go to South America. But she's told keen to commit to the Australian market. So is GTK. So I think we have, you know, a lot of pieces of the puzzle in place.
16:30 - Shane Kelly
So, so what am I, what am I doing? So I might, I might do a, just give you a one pager on what the scope of the technical work would be. And then you guys can talk about that internally. And then if you come back to me, maybe with someone you think, cause I, if you look at the, piece of market work that we did, what it clearly showed is that people think that a Centre's great, a new Centre, a Research Centre's great, but it's really only as good as the people that are in the Centre. And the only reason people, like, there's a lot of trust around relationships in the Research and advanced test work market in that if you've got the right experts and you've got strong QA, QC, then the likelihood that people will use you goes up enormously. So there's a really strong sort of trust element. And so we know that we can't sort of build it and try and run it ourselves. Like you couldn't have Mount Isa City Council just running it and then trying to recruit people. But that's where I say that sort of collaboration, whether it's you guys, SMI, and JK Tech, where you've got the people there. You've got that sort of credibility straight away. So you're not trying to build that element of it. And you're going to have, obviously, good QCQA coming through as well. So I think that's why I like the concept of a collaborative model. And yeah, it sounds like Finland and Australia a lot closer together than I was probably aware. So, just out of interest, are any of those, you know, the MOUs, et cetera, any of those, have they been made public? Has there been any sort of press around that?
18:27 - Birgit Tegethoff
The EU-Australia Critique and Romance, that's public. I'm happy to send you a couple of links afterwards, not a problem at all. And this is also the EU, commission, there's multiple stakeholders out of Brussels, they really pulled a major delegation together this year for IMARC. So a couple streams really, I mean obviously what Australia is also very interested in, what we in Europe are also very interested in is that, you know, connecting off takers in Europe with suppliers in Australia, I mean that was one of the main aims there, so there were major project owners or off takers that need a mineral or concentrate or whatever it is. Right. So that's the other debate. You know, what are we shipping? Are we shipping rocks? Are we shipping, you know, value added products? What are we shipping? So that was one mainstream. The other one is the Research Development Innovation Partnership. So and then obviously policy and how do we finance all that? Right. I mean, that's that's the other one. And you did well, including the Critical Role raw materials, because rare earth elements are the flavor of the month, but you only need, what, a handful of projects to cover most of the supply. And, you know, we heard during IMAG what the US had done with Australia. So they will probably cover most of their projects within the next 12, 6 to 12 months, what they need around the world. So critical raw materials is probably a bit more longer game. And yes, there's a lot of market distortion going on. So, but the critical raw materials act on the EU level calls for, you know, from 2030 onwards, you can't import from a single country. So you have to spread it across multiple countries. So the maximum you can import from one country is 65%. So there is, we're running out of time. We only have what, four years left to get there. And then it also calls to have recycled materials, metals and minerals in the battery value chains by then. So that's the reprocessing.
20:41 - Shane Kelly
Ties in nicely with the tailings, yeah.
20:43 - Birgit Tegethoff
And that's an act. It's not a directive. So that's a law. And most of the European countries are very, you know, diligent and they want to do that. Of course, you've got to be open and transparent, there is a push to do some of that in Europe. And I think Finland is well positioned to cover some of those requirements under the Act, but we still need to import and to collaborate with other countries. And obviously, with the geopolitical and geoeconomic situation, we are very picky who we want to do that with, right?
21:20 - Shane Kelly
Certainly, that's one of the, we will have a geopolitical sort of pace in our report. Because it's so important now.
21:31 - Birgit Tegethoff
I like to talk about geoeconomics, you know, it's, you know, we'll leave the politics to our friends in Canberra, you know, we're the Business people. So we want to, we have this commercial land, we want to do trade, we want to do investment, we want to do innovation. So in a geopolitically challenging environment. But, you know, I like to talk about geoeconomics, that's then a bit more to what I'm good at, you know, coming in from the Business side of things. But yeah, there's a clear appetite to work with the alliance of the willing and capable.
22:08 - Shane Kelly
I'm interested in the broader mandate for Business Finland in terms of, you know, is there a mandate to invest, like, not just in Finland, but, like, is there a mandated sort of level that they want to see investors in countries outside of Finland, where they're looking to develop stronger ties?
22:27 - Werner Merzeder
Yeah, I mean, Business Finland, I think, first of all, it's a governmental organisation, so really 100% owned by the government. And our main focus of Business Finland is really Research funding, applied Research funding for the companies in Finland. So of course, we would like to raise the Research funding share up to four percent of GDP, you know, that is our target. And really to get the companies really to do the Research and therefore we are also doing quite a lot of different programs to do that. But besides the Research, which is of course one of the most prominent part, Business Finland is also in export promotion and invest in attraction. So these are also other parts and especially being that I'm working in the export, very strong in the export promotion, yeah. But of course, all back to our Research people, our Research funding people in the background. So that means that we are really a combined force in that one, yeah.
23:33 - Shane Kelly
Yeah, yeah. And I guess that's where the, you know, the potential for, say, a GTK to be involved in something like this is essentially exporting your knowledge.
23:43 - Birgit Tegethoff
Yeah, exactly. Yeah, and just to give you a little bit bit there, so the 4% GDP by 2030, so we're already hovering around 3% on an OECD level A is humongous. I think Australia sits around 1.4-ish, 6 maybe, if we're generous, depends on what the export. And so just to give you, so it's about a billion euros every year that we need to push, you know, so that's a significant amount of money. So we obviously don't want to deploy that again for the sake of deploying it, we want to use it in a strategic way to also obviously encourage and trigger co-funding from the corporates, right? So that is the idea. So let's say we give them 20 million, they usually put in 30 million for a three or four year project, right? Those are the bigger corporates. And then if and when they do that, we can even deploy more funding to encourage them to bring bring in SME, small, medium-sized enterprises, mature scale-ups, even start-ups into their ecosystem, right? So let's say we have a total, our funding, their funding at 50 million, we can give them another 50 million if they bring in up to 100 of those other players. So not all of them do, and obviously there's gate checkpoints and they need to deliver, but some of these projects have a significant amount of funding over a period of three to four years to really you know, solve problems that, you know, the world is facing. But while we do that, we obviously also very, very, very strong. We need to have commercial products and services coming out of that at the end, not just, you know, a report that ends up in a drawer. So we're talking TRL 6789 and then off to the pilot, you know, in the market. And this is exactly what we do. We want the feedback from the market before we innovate something. Because, you know, what are we developing if it doesn't solve a problem in the market? So this is where our role here on the ground also is very important to get that feedback. What's needed in the market? Where are we at? Who are the players? You know, so we have the real world test cases. Especially in the mining sector, we have a digital test mine, an underground mine that's probably not identically related, but I've been working quite a bit with Andrew Scott, and I know he's a frequent flyer in Mount Isa as well. He used to be with BHP. So we have this digital underground mine. It's 1.4 kilometers deep. Our friends from Nokia put a 5G network in there. So A, there's a lot of OEMs, mining equipment, drones, trucks, explosives. So they're all playing down there as an innovation test bet for us that we are supporting. And most of the customers are Australian major mining companies, you know, so BHP is paying to play there. So they already understand, you know, so there's already a lot of established connections and understanding of how deep the expertise in Finland is. So I think it's also adding another layer of who should with whom, when and where. So there's a lot of back and forth and understanding and connections already in place that, you know, will probably expand beautifully to this Research facility.
27:16 - Shane Kelly
And also the good thing is that, you know, in the digital age, you know, there can be, you know, it's not always, it doesn't, you don't always have everyone in the same room at the same time.
27:32 - Birgit Tegethoff
And even for the critical raw materials, it's then traceability and provenance verification is another big, big item, right? So moving forward, it's another, it's part of the EU Critical Raw Materials Act. You know, we need to be able to prove where does this element, metal, mineral come from And how was it mined? And that's, for example, the AI in mining exploration is targeting some of that. So where does it come from Does it come from some global south, not so strong ESG criteria driven country? Because that is another thing that Finland is committed to. We're still committed to be carbon neutral by 2035. So anything we touch has very strong ESG criteria linked to it. So we will have to address that. We're not dropping it. A message there. So again, I think there's an opportunity for a country like Australia and Queensland to get involved.
28:38 - Shane Kelly
Excellent, excellent. And when you do, so you're, are you sort of able to sort of co-fund some of the collaborative sort of work? Like, is that sort of how?
28:50 - Birgit Tegethoff
So Vanna and I were sitting in the customer facing role. So there is a liability Business Finland that's where we sit so we are the ones reaching out having the conversations you know and then you know once we get to the stage where there is a you know some applications and scope document it goes over to our agency where there's obviously a big big wall in between so we kind of lose the access and we should because we don't want to influence anything but obviously we're here to facilitate the you know, find the right people to talk to each other, to matchmake, to project manage, whatever you want to call it. But then once it gets to the application itself, it sits within our agency. Again, they're our colleagues, so we sit in the same building, but obviously different systems. And that's similar to what's happening up in Queensland. I don't know if you're aware of that. There is a lady based out of Frankfurt from trade and Queensland who's coordinating Research development innovation partnerships with European countries. So I've also been working with her quite a bit and when I was working for the German government before this. So she's also in those conversations so we kind of linked her as well to all our funding people so you know because we obviously identify Queensland as one of the states where we want to have multiple engagements and you know any level of government. So perfect, perfect to talk to you as well. So it's, it's, it's a clear commitment to, to collaborate with, with, with Queensland specifically here in Australia. Sometimes faster than to work with a federal level, as you know.
30:35 - Shane Kelly
I think you're always faster.
30:37 - Werner Merzeder
Yeah. Yeah.
30:39 - Shane Kelly
Particularly when you've had a change. Yeah. And you've had a change of government. So there's like, you've got quite a, a mining, a mining progressive government as well, which I think helps. Yeah, for sure.
30:53 - Birgit Tegethoff
You know, it can be managed, you know, and I think most people are committed to manage it in a more sustainable way, which is good. But at the end of the day, we still, you know, also need to deliver results and outcomes. So it needs to be balanced, I think.
31:12 - Shane Kelly
I'm sure you sit there looking at our politics and go, are they just half of the country are just crazy. Like, we've got sort of like a bunch of climate change deniers in sort of one part of government and then the other government are really like, it's such polar opposites in our country. I'm not sure what it's like in Finland or in Germany, Austria, but here it's amazing how it's just got even more polarised as we've gone on. We're just lucky enough that we've got the right side of government in to drive those sort of low carbon footprint projects.
31:53 - Birgit Tegethoff
We did that. We voted for them, Shane. So it's us. Well done. You know, most of us, obviously, otherwise they wouldn't be there. Yes, I mean, I think this is a window of opportunity because like I said, I came in 2009 and I stopped following who the Prime Minister is because too many changes. But I think we have a window of opportunity now that the opposition is doing what the opposition is doing, to actually get a few things on track, you know. So stability is, especially if you have such short term governance cycles, is probably something that would be good at this stage. But at the end of the day, it has to make commercial sense as well. So I think that's the delicate debt. Have to perform. And then again, you know, with all these changes and craziness, it keeps us in a job, doesn't it? You know, because they need us to navigate them. So, and both Austria and Germany, their federation system, so we're used to competitive states working with or against each other. So, you know, it's, it's quite familiar.
33:03 - Shane Kelly
Well, it's a bit like that, because Queensland is sort of like, they think they're their own country.
33:09 - Birgit Tegethoff
So this is what always what I say, I mean, when Werner came here, so what's, you know, what's the strategy of Australia? I'm like, nah, that's not how it works here. You know, so it's like six plus two plus one, you know, how much time do you have? Because we have to talk to many, many, many strategies. It's not just one. It keeps us in a job, doesn't it?
33:28 - Shane Kelly
Every stay for themselves. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. That's right.
33:34 - Werner Merzeder
Shane, one question. Would you be also interested to come to Finland and have a look at those facilities also for benchmark. Or how would it work from the practical point of view?
33:45 - Shane Kelly
Well, there's a couple of ways it might work is that, say for example, if there is a technical piece that you guys can assist with, we'd need to have a call and then it might be either a case, it probably would be, because you don't need to be in Mount Isa to do this work in terms of the technical work, because essentially what we're doing, we're going to have a floor plan, and then it's saying, well, what's the gear we need to have in there? And SMI have done quite a bit of work around that. But I think we're trying to, we've probably expanded the scope of what that capabilities of the Centre can be, because we need to ensure that it is future proof. So we don't want to build something that's just like, has a sort of more confined scope. But there's no So for example, the lab, it might be more Research focused, but we want to have it so it's scaled so that it could be a full commercial scale lab. So that if a core or an ALS or someone ran it in the future, you know, when you might decide that's the better way, you know, once you get to a certain point, you go, right, it might be a commercial partner comes in. So we want to have, we want to make sure we get the scale right. And I think that So we don't need to necessarily be in town. So it might be useful to actually get, and I've got a very good travel budget for the project. I was thinking they would come here, but in this instance, it might be, yes, that it makes more sense to go to Finland and do the work in Finland in terms of the refinement of the plan, et cetera. And it would cut costs down from your perspective as well. And I've got a budget. To work with and I'll tell you what the budget is when I send the paper through. But if it comes in and your side says, well, it's going to cost a lot more than that, then maybe we can have a discussion around how maybe there might be some sharing. You guys might have a bucket you can tap into to assist on that front.
35:51 - Birgit Tegethoff
And there's always Tony, you know, I mean, and, you know, and the Queensland government as overall You know, they've been quite supportive, let's put it this way, and open to at least listen and support.
36:07 - Shane Kelly
Critical Minerals Queensland are co-funding this project with Mt Isa, so they're already in there. So I caught up with Tony, you were talking about Tony Knight, I assume?
36:18 - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah.
36:18 - Shane Kelly
So I caught up with Tony, what was it, three weeks ago, three or four weeks ago. And he was the first person who mentioned that Werner was in, you know, you were in town and yeah, it's been really good to have a chance to catch up with you guys. And I actually said to the steering committee about probably a bit over a month ago that for me, having GTK come in and do the technical feasibility was the thing that seemed to make the most sense because they've got that sort of Research and commercial sort of, you know, mouse that they bring together. And if there's potential for them to have that ongoing involvement, there's nothing better than having a hand in designing something you might get to run.
37:08 - Birgit Tegethoff
There you go. Makes sense.
37:10 - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah.
37:13 - Birgit Tegethoff
I hear there is a EU ambassador trip coming up to Queensland in a few weeks and I don't know if they come to Mount Isa or not. Have you seen the final program where no or you know you wouldn't know about it right okay yeah so we might have to get our hands on that I'm not sure it is very hot it gets very hot in man I was Tommy somebody suggested all you can come along or come in July love you guys but you know maybe not in November Yeah, and that's where, you know, like even you think about the operation of the Centre is that it's, you know, they have a mining season, like, sorry, they have an exploration season.
38:01 - Shane Kelly
So no exploration happens really from November through to probably start of March.
38:07 - Werner Merzeder
Okay.
38:08 - Shane Kelly
So then it'll just be purely just people doing Research stuff. And then up, then there'll be a lift up in the And, yeah, because, which is not necessarily a bad thing, it just means that you don't need to have that many people there for the full season.
38:27 - Birgit Tegethoff
And with technology, and especially the mining sector, a lot of it is remotely operated anyway. So, I mean, there's probably a few things that you can do in the digital scope space, you know, I mean, obviously, you still need the physical lab there and the pilot. But, you know, the monitoring and some of the, you know, tests can continue while, you know, it's too hot to really operate on the ground or, you know, extremely uncomfortable to operate.
38:53 - Shane Kelly
Yeah, that's right. You might just have the lab technicians operating in their air-conditioned comfort. And yeah, that's it for a certain period of time. Yeah.
39:04 - Birgit Tegethoff
And that's also another. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Well, looking forward to your scope and, you know, more information. Yes. I'm more than happy to put our heads together and hopefully get some collaboration going.
39:17 - Shane Kelly
Good stuff. No, I like the sound of that. Thank you very much for making the time to speak with me and I'll be in touch soon. Fantastic.
39:26 - Birgit Tegethoff
Thanks, Shane. Have a good one. Take care. Thank you. Bye-bye. You're welcome.
39:31 - Unidentified Speaker
Bye-bye.
